---
layout: default.md
title: "Arnav's Project Portfolio Page"
---


### Project: UniVerse

UniVerse is a **desktop app for managing contacts**, optimized for use via a **Command Line Interface (CLI)**
while incorporating a **Graphical User Interface (GUI)** for ease of use. UniVerse is designed to help you manage
detailed contact information, including academic and professional details, quickly and efficiently.

Given below are my contributions to the project.

* **Enhancements to existing features**: Expanded `add` Command (Pull requests [\#111](https://github.com/AY2425S1-CS2103T-T17-1/tp/pull/111)
  * What it does: Extends the `add` command to include fields such as birthday.
  * Justification: The enhancement was necessary to create a comprehensive profile for each contact, which supports building both academic and professional networks.
  * Highlights: This feature supports multiple date formats.

* **Code contributed**: [RepoSense link](https://nus-cs2103-ay2425s1.github.io/tp-dashboard/?search=T17-1&sort=groupTitle&sortWithin=title&timeframe=commit&mergegroup=&groupSelect=groupByRepos&breakdown=true&checkedFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code~other&since=2024-09-20&tabOpen=true&tabType=authorship&tabAuthor=arnav12344&tabRepo=AY2425S1-CS2103T-T17-1%2Ftp%5Bmaster%5D&authorshipIsMergeGroup=false&authorshipFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code&authorshipIsBinaryFileTypeChecked=false&authorshipIsIgnoredFilesChecked=false)

* **UI Changes** (Pull requests [\#122](https://github.com/AY2425S1-CS2103T-T17-1/tp/pull/122)
  * Added a new University tab to facilitate searching by university: findu
  * What it does: Adds a new University tab in the UI, allowing users to filter and search for contacts by university through the findu command.
  * Justification: This UI enhancement provides users with an easy way to narrow down contacts within the same university, supporting targeted networking within academic institutions.
  * Highlights: This feature offers a streamlined interface for university-based searches. The new tab makes it intuitive for users to access and use the findu command, enhancing the app’s usability in academic and professional contexts.

* **Bug Reports**:
  * UI Bug: University list does not update when adding a person with a new university (Issue [\#125](https://github.com/AY2425S1-CS2103T-T17-1/tp/issues/125)).

* **Documentation**:
  * User Guide:
    * Added documentation for the `addi` feature (Pull request [\#148](https://github.com/AY2425S1-CS2103T-T17-1/tp/pull/148)).

* **Project management**:
  * Meeting Coordination: Scheduled and facilitated weekly team meetings, documented detailed notes, and assigned clear action items, ensuring cohesive collaboration and alignment across the team.
  * Deliverable Management: Oversaw deliverable timelines and milestones, meeting each target punctually while maintaining high-quality standards to support the project’s overall success.
