docs/UserGuide.md, before:

---
  layout: default.md
  title: "User Guide"
  pageNav: 3
---

# AB-3 User Guide

AddressBook Level 3 (AB3) is a **desktop app for managing contacts, optimized for use via a  Line Interface** (CLI) while still having the benefits of a Graphical User Interface (GUI). If you can type fast, AB3 can get your contact management tasks done faster than traditional GUI apps.

<!-- * Table of Contents -->
<page-nav-print />

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Quick start

1. Ensure you have Java `17` or above installed in your Computer.

1. Download the latest `.jar` file from [here](https://github.com/se-edu/addressbook-level3/releases).

1. Copy the file to the folder you want to use as the _home folder_ for your AddressBook.

1. Open a command terminal, `cd` into the folder you put the jar file in, and use the `java -jar addressbook.jar` command to run the application.<br>
   A GUI similar to the below should appear in a few seconds. Note how the app contains some sample data.<br>
   ![Ui](images/Ui.png)

1. Type the command in the command box and press Enter to execute it. e.g. typing **`help`** and pressing Enter will open the help window.<br>
   Some example commands you can try:

   * `list` : Lists all contacts.

   * `add n/John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@example.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01` : Adds a contact named `John Doe` to the Address Book.

   * `delete 3` : Deletes the 3rd contact shown in the current list.

   * `clear` : Deletes all contacts.

   * `exit` : Exits the app.

1. Refer to the [Features](#features) below for details of each command.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Features

<box type="info" seamless>

**Notes about the command format:**<br>

* Words in `UPPER_CASE` are the parameters to be supplied by the user.<br>
  e.g. in `add n/NAME`, `NAME` is a parameter which can be used as `add n/John Doe`.

* Items in square brackets are optional.<br>
  e.g `n/NAME [t/TAG]` can be used as `n/John Doe t/friend` or as `n/John Doe`.

* Items with `…`​ after them can be used multiple times including zero times.<br>
  e.g. `[t/TAG]…​` can be used as ` ` (i.e. 0 times), `t/friend`, `t/friend t/family` etc.

* Parameters can be in any order.<br>
  e.g. if the command specifies `n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER`, `p/PHONE_NUMBER n/NAME` is also acceptable.

* Extraneous parameters for commands that do not take in parameters (such as `help`, `list`, `exit` and `clear`) will be ignored.<br>
  e.g. if the command specifies `help 123`, it will be interpreted as `help`.

* If you are using a PDF version of this document, be careful when copying and pasting commands that span multiple lines as space characters surrounding line-breaks may be omitted when copied over to the application.
</box>

### Viewing help : `help`

Shows a message explaning how to access the help page.

![help message](images/helpMessage.png)

Format: `help`


### Adding a person: `add`

Adds a person to the address book.

Format: `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS [t/TAG]…​`

<box type="tip" seamless>

**Tip:** A person can have any number of tags (including 0)
</box>

Examples:
* `add n/John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@example.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01`
* `add n/Betsy Crowe t/friend e/betsycrowe@example.com a/Newgate Prison p/1234567 t/criminal`

### Listing all persons : `list`

Shows a list of all persons in the address book.

Format: `list`

### Editing a person : `edit`

Edits an existing person in the address book.

Format: `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [t/TAG]…​`

* Edits the person at the specified `INDEX`. The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list. The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​
* At least one of the optional fields must be provided.
* Existing values will be updated to the input values.
* When editing tags, the existing tags of the person will be removed i.e adding of tags is not cumulative.
* You can remove all the person’s tags by typing `t/` without
    specifying any tags after it.

Examples:
*  `edit 1 p/91234567 e/johndoe@example.com` Edits the phone number and email address of the 1st person to be `91234567` and `johndoe@example.com` respectively.
*  `edit 2 n/Betsy Crower t/` Edits the name of the 2nd person to be `Betsy Crower` and clears all existing tags.

### Locating persons by name: `find`

Finds persons whose names contain any of the given keywords.

Format: `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`

* The search is case-insensitive. e.g `hans` will match `Hans`
* The order of the keywords does not matter. e.g. `Hans Bo` will match `Bo Hans`
* Only the name is searched.
* Only full words will be matched e.g. `Han` will not match `Hans`
* Persons matching at least one keyword will be returned (i.e. `OR` search).
  e.g. `Hans Bo` will return `Hans Gruber`, `Bo Yang`

Examples:
* `find John` returns `john` and `John Doe`
* `find alex david` returns `Alex Yeoh`, `David Li`<br>
  ![result for 'find alex david'](images/findAlexDavidResult.png)

### Deleting a person : `delete`

Deletes the specified person and tasks associated to that person from the address book.

Format: `delete INDEX`

* Deletes the person and task associated to that person at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `list` followed by `delete 2` deletes the 2nd person in the address book.
* `find john doe` followed by `delete 1` deletes the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.

### Adding a task : `addtask`

Adds a task to a person in the address book.

Format: `addtask INDEX d/DESCRIPTION`

* Adds a task at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `list` followed by `addtask 2 d/Eat paracetamol 1000mg` adds a task to the 2nd person in the address book.
* `find John doe` followed by `addtask 1 d/Clear diapers` deletes the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.
![Person List](images/PersonListExample.png)
![Task List](images/TaskListExample.png)

### Deleting a task : `deletetask`

Deletes a task to a person in the address book.

Format: `deletetask INDEX`

* Deletes a task at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `deletetask 1` deletes the 1st task in the task list.

### Adding emergency contact : `emergency`

Adds an emergency contact and details to a person in the address book.

Format: `emergency INDEX n/EMERGENCY_CONTACT_NAME p/EMERGENCY_CONTACT_NUMBER`

* Adds an emergency contact and details at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `emergency 1 n/tom tan p/91237171` adds an emergency contact `tom tan` with contact number `91237171` to 1st index in person list.

### Adding priority level : `priority`

Adds an priority level to a person in the address book.

Format: `priority /id INDEX /level PRIORITY_LEVEL`

* Adds a priority level at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​
* The priority level **must be a positive integer** and only from **1, 2, 3**

Examples:
* `priority /id 1 /level 2` adds priority level `2` to 1st index in person list.

### Deleting priority level : `deletelevel`

Delete a priority level to a person in the address book, resetting it to the default value **3**.

Format: `deletelevel INDEX`

* Delete the current priority level at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `deletelevel 1` deletes priority level of the 1st index in person list.

### Mark Task : `marktask`

Marks a task at a specific index.

Format: `marktask INDEX`

* Marks a task at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed Task list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `marktask 1` marks a task of the 1st index in task list.

### Clearing all entries : `clear`

Clears all entries from the address book.

Format: `clear`

### Exiting the program : `exit`

Exits the program.

Format: `exit`

### Saving the data

AddressBook data are saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data. There is no need to save manually.

### Editing the data file

AddressBook data are saved automatically as a JSON file `[JAR file location]/data/addressbook.json`. Advanced users are welcome to update data directly by editing that data file.

<box type="warning" seamless>

**Caution:**
If your changes to the data file makes its format invalid, AddressBook will discard all data and start with an empty data file at the next run.  Hence, it is recommended to take a backup of the file before editing it.<br>
Furthermore, certain edits can cause the AddressBook to behave in unexpected ways (e.g., if a value entered is outside the acceptable range). Therefore, edit the data file only if you are confident that you can update it correctly.
</box>

### Archiving data files `[coming in v2.0]`

_Details coming soon ..._

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## FAQ

**Q**: How do I transfer my data to another Computer?<br>
**A**: Install the app in the other computer and overwrite the empty data file it creates with the file that contains the data of your previous AddressBook home folder.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Known issues

1. **When using multiple screens**, if you move the application to a secondary screen, and later switch to using only the primary screen, the GUI will open off-screen. The remedy is to delete the `preferences.json` file created by the application before running the application again.
2. **If you minimize the Help Window** and then run the `help` command (or use the `Help` menu, or the keyboard shortcut `F1`) again, the original Help Window will remain minimized, and no new Help Window will appear. The remedy is to manually restore the minimized Help Window.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Command summary

| Action                | Format, Examples                                                                                                                                                      |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Add**               | `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS [t/TAG]…​` <br> e.g., `add n/James Ho p/22224444 e/jamesho@example.com a/123, Clementi Rd, 1234665 t/friend t/colleague` |
| **Add Priority**      | `priority /id INDEX /level PRIORITY_LEVEL` <br> e.g., `priority /id 1 /level 2`                                                                                       |
| **Add Task**          | `addtask INDEX d/TASK_DESCRIPTION` <br> e.g., `addtask 1 d/Eat paracetamol 1000mg`                                                                                    |
| **Clear**             | `clear`                                                                                                                                                               |
| **Delete**            | `delete INDEX`<br> e.g., `delete 3`                                                                                                                                   |
| **Delete Priority**   | `deletelevel INDEX` <br> e.g., `deletelevel 1`                                                                                                                        |
| **Delete Task**       | `deletetask INDEX`<br> e.g., `deletetask 3`                                                                                                                           |
| **Edit**              | `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE_NUMBER] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [t/TAG]…​`<br> e.g.,`edit 2 n/James Lee e/jameslee@example.com`                                           |
| **Emergency Contact** | `emergency INDEX n/EMERGENCY_CONTACT_NAME p/EMERGENCY_CONTACT_NUMBER`<br> e.g., `emergency 3 n/Tom Tan p/97151717`                                                    |
| **Find**              | `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`<br> e.g., `find James Jake`                                                                                                            |
| **List**              | `list`                                                                                                                                                                |
| **Mark Task**         | `marktask INDEX`<br> e.g., `marktask 1`                                                                                                                               |
| **Help**              | `help`                                                                                                                                                                |

Commit message:

Update UG title and Table Of Centents

docs/UserGuide.md, after:

---
  layout: default.md
  title: "User Guide"
  pageNav: 3
---

# NovaCare User Guide

NovaCare is a **desktop app for managing patients, optimized for use via a  Line Interface** (CLI) while still having the benefits of a Graphical User Interface (GUI). 
If you can type fast, NovaCare can get your patient management tasks done faster than traditional GUI apps.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Table of Contents
- [How to use NovaCare](#how-to-use-novacare)
- [Quick start](#quick-start)
- [Features](#features)
- [FAQ](#faq)
- [Known issues](#known-issues)
- [Command summary](#command-summary)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## How to use NovaCare

This user guide is tailored for new and existing users of NovaCare. 


If you are new to NovaCare, we recommend you to start with the [Quick Start](#quick-start) section. 

If you are an existing user looking for a specific feature, you can jump to the [Features](#features) section or [Command Summary](#Command Summary) section.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Quick start

1. Ensure you have Java `17` or above installed in your Computer. You can download Java from [here](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/#java17).

1. Download the latest `.jar` file from [here](https://github.com/AY2425S1-CS2103T-F15-1/tp/releases).

1. Copy the file to the folder you want to use as the _home folder_ for your AddressBook.

1. Open a command terminal, `cd` into the folder you put the jar file in, and use the `java -jar addressbook.jar` command to run the application.<br>
   A GUI similar to the below should appear in a few seconds. Note how the app contains some sample data.<br>
   ![Ui](images/Ui.png)

1. Type the command in the command box and press Enter to execute it. e.g. typing **`help`** and pressing Enter will open the help window.<br>
   Some example commands you can try:

   * `list` : Lists all contacts.

   * `add n/John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@example.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01` : Adds a contact named `John Doe` to the Address Book.

   * `delete 3` : Deletes the 3rd contact shown in the current list.

   * `clear` : Deletes all contacts.

   * `exit` : Exits the app.

1. Refer to the [Features](#features) below for details of each command.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Features

<box type="info" seamless>

**Notes about the command format:**<br>

* Words in `UPPER_CASE` are the parameters to be supplied by the user.<br>
  e.g. in `add n/NAME`, `NAME` is a parameter which can be used as `add n/John Doe`.

* Items in square brackets are optional.<br>
  e.g `n/NAME [t/TAG]` can be used as `n/John Doe t/friend` or as `n/John Doe`.

* Items with `…`​ after them can be used multiple times including zero times.<br>
  e.g. `[t/TAG]…​` can be used as ` ` (i.e. 0 times), `t/friend`, `t/friend t/family` etc.

* Parameters can be in any order.<br>
  e.g. if the command specifies `n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER`, `p/PHONE_NUMBER n/NAME` is also acceptable.

* Extraneous parameters for commands that do not take in parameters (such as `help`, `list`, `exit` and `clear`) will be ignored.<br>
  e.g. if the command specifies `help 123`, it will be interpreted as `help`.

* If you are using a PDF version of this document, be careful when copying and pasting commands that span multiple lines as space characters surrounding line-breaks may be omitted when copied over to the application.
</box>

### Viewing help : `help`

Shows a message explaning how to access the help page.

![help message](images/helpMessage.png)

Format: `help`


### Adding a person: `add`

Adds a person to the address book.

Format: `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS [t/TAG]…​`

<box type="tip" seamless>

**Tip:** A person can have any number of tags (including 0)
</box>

Examples:
* `add n/John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@example.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01`
* `add n/Betsy Crowe t/friend e/betsycrowe@example.com a/Newgate Prison p/1234567 t/criminal`

### Listing all persons : `list`

Shows a list of all persons in the address book.

Format: `list`

### Editing a person : `edit`

Edits an existing person in the address book.

Format: `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [t/TAG]…​`

* Edits the person at the specified `INDEX`. The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list. The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​
* At least one of the optional fields must be provided.
* Existing values will be updated to the input values.
* When editing tags, the existing tags of the person will be removed i.e adding of tags is not cumulative.
* You can remove all the person’s tags by typing `t/` without
    specifying any tags after it.

Examples:
*  `edit 1 p/91234567 e/johndoe@example.com` Edits the phone number and email address of the 1st person to be `91234567` and `johndoe@example.com` respectively.
*  `edit 2 n/Betsy Crower t/` Edits the name of the 2nd person to be `Betsy Crower` and clears all existing tags.

### Locating persons by name: `find`

Finds persons whose names contain any of the given keywords.

Format: `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`

* The search is case-insensitive. e.g `hans` will match `Hans`
* The order of the keywords does not matter. e.g. `Hans Bo` will match `Bo Hans`
* Only the name is searched.
* Only full words will be matched e.g. `Han` will not match `Hans`
* Persons matching at least one keyword will be returned (i.e. `OR` search).
  e.g. `Hans Bo` will return `Hans Gruber`, `Bo Yang`

Examples:
* `find John` returns `john` and `John Doe`
* `find alex david` returns `Alex Yeoh`, `David Li`<br>
  ![result for 'find alex david'](images/findAlexDavidResult.png)

### Deleting a person : `delete`

Deletes the specified person and tasks associated to that person from the address book.

Format: `delete INDEX`

* Deletes the person and task associated to that person at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `list` followed by `delete 2` deletes the 2nd person in the address book.
* `find john doe` followed by `delete 1` deletes the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.

### Adding a task : `addtask`

Adds a task to a person in the address book.

Format: `addtask INDEX d/DESCRIPTION`

* Adds a task at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `list` followed by `addtask 2 d/Eat paracetamol 1000mg` adds a task to the 2nd person in the address book.
* `find John doe` followed by `addtask 1 d/Clear diapers` deletes the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.
![Person List](images/PersonListExample.png)
![Task List](images/TaskListExample.png)

### Deleting a task : `deletetask`

Deletes a task to a person in the address book.

Format: `deletetask INDEX`

* Deletes a task at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `deletetask 1` deletes the 1st task in the task list.

### Adding emergency contact : `emergency`

Adds an emergency contact and details to a person in the address book.

Format: `emergency INDEX n/EMERGENCY_CONTACT_NAME p/EMERGENCY_CONTACT_NUMBER`

* Adds an emergency contact and details at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `emergency 1 n/tom tan p/91237171` adds an emergency contact `tom tan` with contact number `91237171` to 1st index in person list.

### Adding priority level : `priority`

Adds an priority level to a person in the address book.

Format: `priority /id INDEX /level PRIORITY_LEVEL`

* Adds a priority level at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​
* The priority level **must be a positive integer** and only from **1, 2, 3**

Examples:
* `priority /id 1 /level 2` adds priority level `2` to 1st index in person list.

### Deleting priority level : `deletelevel`

Delete a priority level to a person in the address book, resetting it to the default value **3**.

Format: `deletelevel INDEX`

* Delete the current priority level at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `deletelevel 1` deletes priority level of the 1st index in person list.

### Mark Task : `marktask`

Marks a task at a specific index.

Format: `marktask INDEX`

* Marks a task at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed Task list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `marktask 1` marks a task of the 1st index in task list.

### Clearing all entries : `clear`

Clears all entries from the address book.

Format: `clear`

### Exiting the program : `exit`

Exits the program.

Format: `exit`

### Saving the data

AddressBook data are saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data. There is no need to save manually.

### Editing the data file

AddressBook data are saved automatically as a JSON file `[JAR file location]/data/addressbook.json`. Advanced users are welcome to update data directly by editing that data file.

<box type="warning" seamless>

**Caution:**
If your changes to the data file makes its format invalid, AddressBook will discard all data and start with an empty data file at the next run.  Hence, it is recommended to take a backup of the file before editing it.<br>
Furthermore, certain edits can cause the AddressBook to behave in unexpected ways (e.g., if a value entered is outside the acceptable range). Therefore, edit the data file only if you are confident that you can update it correctly.
</box>

### Archiving data files `[coming in v2.0]`

_Details coming soon ..._

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## FAQ

**Q**: How do I transfer my data to another Computer?<br>
**A**: Install the app in the other computer and overwrite the empty data file it creates with the file that contains the data of your previous AddressBook home folder.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Known issues

1. **When using multiple screens**, if you move the application to a secondary screen, and later switch to using only the primary screen, the GUI will open off-screen. The remedy is to delete the `preferences.json` file created by the application before running the application again.
2. **If you minimize the Help Window** and then run the `help` command (or use the `Help` menu, or the keyboard shortcut `F1`) again, the original Help Window will remain minimized, and no new Help Window will appear. The remedy is to manually restore the minimized Help Window.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Command summary

| Action                | Format, Examples                                                                                                                                                      |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Add**               | `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS [t/TAG]…​` <br> e.g., `add n/James Ho p/22224444 e/jamesho@example.com a/123, Clementi Rd, 1234665 t/friend t/colleague` |
| **Add Priority**      | `priority /id INDEX /level PRIORITY_LEVEL` <br> e.g., `priority /id 1 /level 2`                                                                                       |
| **Add Task**          | `addtask INDEX d/TASK_DESCRIPTION` <br> e.g., `addtask 1 d/Eat paracetamol 1000mg`                                                                                    |
| **Clear**             | `clear`                                                                                                                                                               |
| **Delete**            | `delete INDEX`<br> e.g., `delete 3`                                                                                                                                   |
| **Delete Priority**   | `deletelevel INDEX` <br> e.g., `deletelevel 1`                                                                                                                        |
| **Delete Task**       | `deletetask INDEX`<br> e.g., `deletetask 3`                                                                                                                           |
| **Edit**              | `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE_NUMBER] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [t/TAG]…​`<br> e.g.,`edit 2 n/James Lee e/jameslee@example.com`                                           |
| **Emergency Contact** | `emergency INDEX n/EMERGENCY_CONTACT_NAME p/EMERGENCY_CONTACT_NUMBER`<br> e.g., `emergency 3 n/Tom Tan p/97151717`                                                    |
| **Find**              | `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`<br> e.g., `find James Jake`                                                                                                            |
| **List**              | `list`                                                                                                                                                                |
| **Mark Task**         | `marktask INDEX`<br> e.g., `marktask 1`                                                                                                                               |
| **Help**              | `help`                                                                                                                                                                |
